# DeFi Glossary
**Aggregator**   Aggregators automatically compare prices or interest rates on various markets and lending protocols. Users can interact with the protocol offering the best price or interest rate directly via the aggregator. No additional steps are required.<br>
**AMM**   Automatic Market Makers are trading pools that allow market participants to exchange crypto assets in a decentralized manner. Unlike DEXes, AMMs do not use order books or matching engines. Instead they use liquidity pools consisting of two or more tokens. When exchanging tokens on AMMs market participants interact with the different pools rather than with other market participants. The price of each token in the pool is measured relative to the other token(s) in the pool and changes with each interaction.<br>
**APY**   The Annual Percentage Yield, is a metric used to calculate the return on investment of an asset which takes the effect of compounding interest into account.<br>
**DeFi**   Decentralized Finance is an umbrella term for financial applications in the broadest sense that run independently as smart contract on blockchains. Prominent use cases include AMMs, DEXes, DeFi derivatives platforms, lending protocols, aggregators as well as robo-advisors.<br>
**DEX**   DEX stands for decentralized exchange. A DEX in its truest form operates in a fully decentralized manner on the blockchain. This applies to all components of the DEX, namely the order book, the matching engine and settlement mechanisms. Given the low performance and high transaction costs on Ethereum, many DEXes use a hybrid approach where the order book and matching engine operate off-chain while the settlement occurs on-chain. <br>
**Derivatives**   Derivatives are financial instruments whose value depends on the value of an underlying. This underlying can be an asset, index, or any other variable (e.g. hashrate). Settlement can either be made physically or in cash. Derivatives can be used for both hedging and speculation.<br>
**Forced liquidation**   The term is most commonly used in the context of derivatives. In order to trade on leverage, traders have to deposit a margin. In the context of DeFi derivatives this margin is deposited to a smart contract. If the margin is insufficient to maintain a leveraged position the position may automatically be liquidated by the system.<br>
**Gas**   On Ethereum and most other platforms users have to pay a fee to interact with the blockchain. The fees are meant to incentivize network participants to maintain the blockchain and to protect against DoS attacks. On Ethereum, the fees are measured in Gwei. The total fees depend on both the gas consumed, i.e. the number of computational steps required to execute a transaction, and the gas price in Gwei.<br>
**Governance**   Governance is commonly referred to as the way in which power is exercised and decisions are made. In the case of DeFi, holders of governance tokens may decide on the listing of new trading pairs, fee adjustments, the implementation of new strategies, the allocation of recourses and much more.<br>
**Leverage**   Leverage allows traders to open positions that would otherwise not have been available to them. To open a leveraged position, traders must deposit a margin with a broker and in the case of DeFi the protocol. The margin serves as a guarantee that the contract in question will be fulfilled. A leverage of 100X means that a trader must only deposit ETH 1 as margin in order to open a position of ETH 100.<br>
**Liquidity**   Liquidity describes the ease of converting one asset typically into cash. In liquid markets, it is easy to convert one asset into another at any given point in time. In markets with low liquidity, this is rather difficult and sometimes impossible. On centralized exchanges liquidity is typically provided by professional market makers. On AMMs anyone can become a liquidity provider.<br>
**Liquidity Mining**   In the case of liquidity mining rewards are paid to liquidity providers as an incentive to participate in the protocol. The rewards are typically paid in the form of governance tokens which can be traded on many centralized and decentralized exchanges. Liquidity mining aims to increase early adoption of a protocol but also serves as a mechanism to distribute governance.<br>
**LPs**   A liquidity provider is a person or a group of persons who provides liquidity to AMMs. In exchange for providing liquidity to a pool, LPs participate in the trading fees charged to market participants for interacting with the respective pool. In addition, LPs may also receive additional tokens which serve as an incentive to increase early adoption.<br>
**LP Token**   When providing liquidity to an AMM, LPs receive a liquidity token in return. The LP token represents the LP’s share in the pool and can generally be converted back into the original assets that were originally supplied to the respective pools at any time. LP tokens further allow the LP to participate on a pro rata basis in the trading fees charged to market participants for interacting with the respective pool.<br>
**Market Makers**   Market makers provide liquidity and depth to markets. In traditional finance and on centralized exchanges, this activity is typically performed by professional market makers who profit from the difference in the bid-ask spread.
**Margin**   To open leveraged positions a trader must generally deposit a margin with the broker or in the case of DeFi with the protocol. The margins are typically somewhere between 1 and 20 percent of the total transaction value and ensure that the trader can meet his obligations under a contract. If the margin is not sufficient to maintain a leveraged position, the system may automatically close out the position. In traditional finance, the trader generally receives a margin call when his margin is low. In DeFi this is not necessarily the case.
**Margin Call**   When opening a leveraged position, a trader must deposit a margin with the protocol. If the margin falls below a certain threshold the trader may receive a request to provide additional margin to the protocol. If the trader does not do so, the position may be closed automatically by the system.
**Pools**   Pools are smart contracts that control funds and with which market participants can interact. They are used by various applications in the DeFi space, including AMMs, lending protocols and vaults in case of robo-advisors.
**Protocols**   In the context of DeFi protocols are understood as a set of smart contracts that interact with each other to provide certain functionality to users, e.g. the ability to lend and borrow crypto assets from a lending protocol.
**TVL**   TVL stands for total value locked. It is used to measure the value of funds locked into DeFi protocol. While TVL provides an easy-to-understand metric for the size of the DeFi industry, it has been subject to criticism as it does not reflect funds borrowed from lending protocols.
